Welcome to Slash Forward. Imagine wanting
something so bad you find yourself waiting
forty years for the chance to make your dream
a reality. And then, after taking all the
appropriate steps and precautions you manage to
get within a hair’s breadth of achieving your
goals - only to have some asshole lock you in a
basement and set you on fire!? Talk about a gut
punch. Despite the depressing nature of this
scenario, we will be making preparations for
welcoming the upcoming Halloween Kills movie into
our eyeholes by taking a look at the 2018 sequel
to the original 1978 Halloween, Hall-o-weeeen?
Long after the residents of Haddonfield forgot
about the old babysitter murders, and as
a result of his therapeutic stagnation,
Michael Myers is set to be transferred to a
high-security facility where he may be crammed
into a dark pit to live out the remainder
of his days. In the intervening years,
Laurie Strode has been solely focused on
preparing herself for a presumed final showdown,
even sacrificing her relationship with her
daughter to make sure she stays on track.
Will this be the final showdown? Who will
survive? Let’s take a look and see. Be sure
to comment with your favorite Halloween timeline,
and while you’re here, check out some other fine
selections from the channel’s catalogue. I’ve
covered quite a few movies. Let’s get to it.
We open on the endless passage of time - a
constant hindrance for the mentally infirm,
relegated to passing each new moment as the
last. Here a couple of podcasters are looking
to capitalize on the chance to interview Smith
Grove’s most infamous before he is transferred
to a far less accommodating facility.
They are escorted back by his caretaker,
Dr. Sartain, whose obsessive study
of Michael Myers is coming to an
end as he has made no progress whatsoever -
Michael has never even uttered a single word.
They arrive during recess where the patients
are graciously chained up outside so they can
get a little Vitamin D. After forty years of
inactivity, Aaron presumes he has what it takes
to get inside as he comes bearing a precious
gift. At the mere presence of the artefact the
air bristles with activity, riling up the inmates
as Aaron eggs him on, thirsting for a response.
We then transition to Haddonfield as our guerilla
journalists try to build up some B-roll after an
unsuccessful provocation. They’re pressing
forward, hoping to draw out Laurie Strode,
who has since become a cagey, survivalist loner -
offering her a bag in exchange for a conversation.
Still reluctant, she does let them in and sits
down to talk. Dana starts by trying to build
up their credentials, hoping to earn trust
and impressing upon her the importance of
drawing insight from her travails. But all this
fluffing about the importance of her story is
little more than an irritant, and diving right
into her losing custody of her daughter only
pushes things over the line. Seeing that they’re
losing her, Aaron goes for broke and reveals that
what they really want is a sensationalist
Strode/Myers sit down so the two enemies
can try to hash out their differences, Ricki
Lake-style. In response, she shows them the door.
After that we swoop in to meet Laurie’s daughter
Karen, and her granddaughter Allyson. Through the
conversation we find that Karen was able to adjust
some appointments so that she would be able to
make it to her National Honor Society event that
evening, and that she and Ray are excited to meet
Allyson’s boyfriend Cameron. Then Allyson hits
her mom with a test - asking her if she invited
grandma like she said she would. She confirms that
she did, failing the test with a clear lie. But
one she considers necessary in order to protect
her precious daughter from her flaky mother.
The lie is confirmed by Alysson when, in
discussing this issue with her friends
on the way to school, she reveals that she
actually invited her grandmother herself. But,
in fairness, it’s a hard time of year for
the family, being permanently haunted by the
events that, for everyone else, are now
mostly local folklore. As a testament to
the prevailing attitude, Dave wonders if
it was even that big of a deal? I mean,
it was one guy with a knife pulling
in a low to moderate body count.
We continue to familiarize ourselves with
the friend group as Alysson makes out with
Cameron in the hallway. Then buddy Oscar joins
in, providing unsolicited kisses to his chums.
As the day wears on, Laurie seeks to meet up
with Alysson in her own way. She has come to
gift her the podcast money and encourage her
to get out there and take life by the tail.
But who is she to make such a suggestion?
I mean, she’s been living like a hermit,
constantly preparing for a disaster that’s never
happened and has proved completely incapable
of getting over her past. But Laurie relishes
confrontation and admits that she would take on
all the hate if it means having a daughter who’s
tough as nails and ready to take on the world.
She then goes back to where everything feels
right, at her stronghold with her weapons, which
she cares for as if they were her own appendages.
Then later that evening we see the casters working
through some of their research, hoping to find
a good hook by listening to old tapes from Dr.
Loomis. Meanwhile, it’s transfer time at the funny
farm where a huge batch of loonies get loaded up,
including Dr. Sartain. As the one primarily
responsible for the most dangerous patient,
he wants to oversee the proceedings.
But outside they also have a guardian
angel in Laurie Strode who sees them
off with a blood-curdling scream.
While back at Chili’s the gang is slammin some
appeteasers and getting intimately acquainted with
Cameron. They high-five over the jalapeno poppers
and bottomless margs as Laurie arrives to check in
on the festivities and blow off some steam before
formally joining them for dinner. She adds to the
conversation by openly sobbing and lamenting
her hesitance in killing Michael when given the
chance. Alysson learns that Karen’s hesitance to
include grandma over the years wasn’t necessarily
unreasonable. She runs out to provide whatever
comfort she can, but does she even understand?
Not at all, we see, when Karen takes a
minute to flash back and reveal the absurd
circumstances of her childhood spent prepping
in various ways. Right up until CPS came and
took her away. Resentful of Laurie’s attempt to
protect her by training her for the inevitable,
she made it her goal to to protect Alysson
by shielding her from the horrors of life.
You know, we all have our own ideas about the
best way to parent, who’s to say what’s best?
Back out on the county roads a father and son
discuss the merits of hunting and fishing versus
expressing oneself through the art of dance.
Before finding a resolution the pair runs across
a busload of wandering psychos. After his dad goes
to check it out, Lumpy calls 911. Unfortunately,
they really need some more info, so he is sent to
wade into the darkness and try to get a handle on
things. He approaches slowly, rifle at the ready,
and has the pleasure of poking at his first
nearly dead man, who warns him to run. He carries
on and soon runs across Dr. Sartain who tries to
startle him into not shooting, resulting in
the opposite outcome. There’s a lot of novel
experiences for a young man going down this
evening. And if only he had left the keys,
he might have been able to share these
stories with someone someday. But he can’t.
Officer Hawkins gets the call and rushes right
out there to poke around. The party has mostly
dispersed at this point, but he still takes it
slow and steady. Due to all the dead bodies. He
finds the doctor at death’s door, mostly concerned
about whether he escaped We may never know.
The next day Aaron and Dana take a quick
visit to the grave of Judith Myers,
and instantly erupt into melodramatic
narrative - apparently for the sole
benefit of the groundskeeper. While
at Haddonfield Memorial Sheriff Barker
strolls in to report that most of the
patients are accounted for, but none
of them are able to relay a comprehensible
account of what transpired. The only useful
information is Hawkins’ recognition that the
bus manifest has Michael Myers’ name on it.
Elsewhere, as our podcast journalists fuel
up, we see a familiar shape creeping around
and committing violence in the background.
Dana takes a little time for herself in
the loo when she is alarmed by some heavy
footfalls and the sound of stall checks,
which is revealed to be a man
with no respect for privacy.
Out at the shop Aaron goes to settle up,
coming face to face with the violence,
cluing him in on the situation in which he finds
himself. Back at the stall Michael attempts to buy
his way in with a handful of bloody chiclets,
causing Dana to immediately salamander into
an adjacent stall where she is granted a few
moments by Aaron who bursts in to confront a now
unbounded Michael. He has a crow bar, but
lacks the necessary blackness in his heart
to commit violence. The end result is his face
getting turned into mashed potatoes all over the
bathroom. When he returns to Dana, she does
little to earn her freedom, and so she dies.
Then Michael goes out to pop the trunk and
reunites face with mask - the true flesh.
Then the news hits Laurie, who immediately begins
lockdown and descends into her panic room for
phase one of preparations. This includes, we come
to learn, forcibly entering Karen’s home to see
if she’s remembered her lessons. She has not, and
so she is chastised for her laziness. Regardless,
they brush off her massacre preparation
warnings in favor of preparing dinner.
Back at the station, the boys are
just now catching up with the path
of destruction - the gravity
of the situation now confirmed.
With the pieces in place, we now
arrive in Haddonfield on Halloween.
Michael makes a quick appearance before
dipping out to find the secret candy. He
glides on into the first house and, candy
desires unfulfilled, he trades hammer for
knife. On his way out he ponders what do
babies think about? Before hitting the
busy strip. His goal here is quite simple
- drop in and out of the shadows, finding
potential victims and turning them into actual
victims. (helping them fulfill their potential)
At the dance the special secret of the Bonnie
and Clyde couples costume is revealed to be a
contravention of heterotypic gender
norms - a pretty low-tier rebellious
statement for highschoolers these
days. They head in where the kids
are just bebopping all over the place.
Alysson takes a quick call from Vicky,
who is stuck babysitting and invites them
over to smoke some reefer after the party.
Despite her coded language, Juien is savvy
and knows exactly what the teens are up to,
earning him an early bedtime. Back at the
gymnasium Alysson returns to find that Cameron
couldn’t go a full two minutes without being
the focus of female sexual attraction. He tries
to convince Allyson that he’s really a nice guy.
And then, like all nice guys, he doubles down by
blaming his behavior on her phone attentiveness
in an overly dramatic manner Got her!
Out in town Laurie is cruising the streets,
listening to a police scanner. While,
by happenstance, Michael arrives at Julien’s
home where Vicky is busy cleaning the largest
knife possible. Then Dave arrives and shows off
his commemorative tattoo, which earns him a dry
hump session. So they get right down to
business, writhing around on the couch.
But Vicky is distracted by a noise. Before Dave
can go check Julien jumps out to warn them about
the bogeyman - an obvious, childish lie. Vicky
agrees to go check it out. After finding nothing,
she puts him back to bed. His final request is to
close the closet door, which doesn’t seem to want
to - oh, there’s a man in there. He drags her
into the room for stabbing while Dave summons
the courage to come to her rescue, taking up
the blade only after the screaming has stopped.
The call goes out for a domestic disturbance,
and they spring into action. Hawkins arrives
on scene first and finds the back door open.
So, he proceeds inward, announcing himself but
receiving no reply. He goes upstairs and finds
a suspicious figure covered by a sheet, which he
hopes to be able to pull back without getting
stabbed. He is successful as it’s Vicky under
there. Laurie arrives and takes a more active
approach up front. She clears the streets and sees
Michael two windows down from Hawkins. While her
aim is true, the shot does not find its target.
Michael then casually strolls out with Hawkins
in pursuit - but delayed by the discovery of Dave
pinned to the wall. Laurie catches up with him and
manages to graze his neck, which doesn’t faze him.
She and Frank then meet up, two traumatized old
timers who bore witness to the 1978 massacre.
As they sort through the scene, Sheriff
Barker arrives with Dr. Sartain,
now cognizant and eager to spill the beans.
The two officers have a dispute about whether
he is an asset or a liability, but he did
warn them that Michael will kill again,
and that’s some hot info. Then
Laurie chimes in to suggest action,
bringing the doctor to his feet as she
represents a nut he sure would like to crack.
While the rest of the town is on lockdown, we
transition to Oscar escorting Alysson - the
coolest, nicest, prettiest girl in school
who deserves so much better than Cameron.
After dropping that hot little nugget, he
invites her to take a shortcut with him.
Meanwhile Hawkins and Sartain are cruising
the streets with their eyes peeled. Through
this conversation, Dr. Sartain gives some
indications that he’s a real freak who would
take great pleasure from diving deep into
Michael’s mind and swimming around in there,
likely while naked. While they’re out, they
all pull up to Alysson’s house and drop a huge,
flaming bag of reality on her doorstep.
In their attempts to reach her we
learn that the plan is to barricade
themselves at granny Strode’s house.
Back with the kids, we see Oscar’s
shortcut consisted of cutting across
one yard, and that by Allyson deserving
better he was referring to his mouth being
on her mouth. Good guy Oscar then
cowers in the face of rejection,
grovelling on the ground and unloading all
his troubles into the uncaring darkness,
which he believes to be occupied by the
homeowner. But, he soon finds out that it is not.
Of course, after the stunt he pulled,
Ally’s not falling for his silly games.
So he dies screaming, stabbed in the
back with his jaw impaled on a picket.
That Allyson believes in, catching her up now
with the rest of us. And, in an unusual twist,
she manages to run screaming and actually
find someone willing to administer assistance.
Hawkins soon arrives and Sartain hops out to soak
in all the firsthand Michael Myers experiences.
As they head out to the Strode
stronghold, Hawkins gets eyes on ya boi,
and risks a full on Ben Tramer fiasco
in order to put an end to the terror.
Unfortunately Dr. Sartain takes his
custodial responsibilities very seriously,
and intervenes to prevent the kill shot. In
a shocking twist he goes one step further,
brandishing his trusty pen knife and murdering
Hawkins. Honestly, he’s never felt closer with
his patient - they may really be in a position to
make some progress here. Then he loads him up with
Alysson and announces his hunch that Michael’s
compulsion to hunt Laurie is what keeps him alive.
He further explains that he’s really keen to
hear Michael’s husky voice whisper something
into his ear. Seeing an opportunity to gain
some leverage, Alysson claims that Michael
spoke to her, and she’ll tell him but only if
he lets her out. You know he’s gotta find out,
so he pulls over and tries to compel her to tell
him. But Michael wakes up and puts an end to that.
He drags him out and after begging for just a
single word, he instead performs a single action.
Alysson also runs off, which all happens
just down the road from the Strode house,
attracting the attention of the officers keeping
guard. They approach cautiously, but find nothing.
As the house is prepped, Ray pauses his
yo-yoing when he notices the police cruiser
parked out front. He goes to see how things
are going, but finds the men to be unwell,
although that is a subjective assessment. At any
rate, Ray will take this experience to the grave
as he is dragged deep into the murky
darkness, firing flaccidly into the dark.
Laurie calls out, then the hunter and prey tingle
with excitement as the big moment approaches.
It unfortunately starts with Laurie, after forty
years of preparations, standing next to a window.
It very nearly ends here, except she happens to
just be built different. She runs down to the
panic room to hit the lights as Michael makes his
way in. Laurie then ventures up to try and finish
what she started. She works her way through, room
by room, clearing them and locking them down.
She follows a blood trail that leads upstairs, and
eventually finds herself in the mannequin room,
so who knows what’s what. Sure enough, he
pops out and guts her before tossing her
over the balcony. He is distracted momentarily by
Allyson’s arrival, allowing Laurie to disappear.
Karen pops out to hurry her down the
stairs where they wait with bated breath
as Michael puzzles this out. When he gets it,
Karen goes to grab her old trusty, but when
it comes down to it, she loses her resolve
and calls out for mommy to save her psyche.
Laurie does come out then and beans Michael,
sending him rolling into the basement. As the
ladies run out, Michael snags Karen’s ankle.
This gives Alysson a chance to draw blood,
an important rite of passage. We then
learn that this stronghold that was
presented as Laurie’s prison was actually
a trap for Michael. After he is captured,
Laurie hits the gas and pilot lights. Then
she tosses him a farewell road flare. But,
as the house violently erupts into flames,
Michael seems nonplussed. The three survivors
run out to the road and find help from a simple
chicken farmer, riding off into the night.
For this post-story wrap up I have a few thoughts
about this movie, but then some nitpicks to make
from a “How to Beat” perspective, because the
survivalist aspects of this movie seem ripe
for the picking. Personally, I liked this one
a lot. I know there are some issues with it,
but I think the general audience critique tends
to go too far in terms of its derision over
what they’re trying to do here. I really
enjoy the Halloween franchise overall,
despite its multitude of various timelines you
have to keep up with. But, while anchored by
one of the best horror films of all time,
the series quality is very inconsistent.
I recently rewatched parts four and five
purely for pleasure, which may seem weird,
but I like them. Although, they’re really not
great. If I could make a timely reference,
part 4’s Michael looks like he was played by Pat
from Saturday Night Live. What I’m saying is, even
if 2018 didn’t work for you, in comparison to the
series, it’s one of the better ones. Objectively.
One of the things I did like was the direction
they took it in regards to presenting the what-if
scenario of looking at the original survivors
forty years later and basing the story around
the wreckage left by the original trauma. It
had similar vibes to Rob Zombie’s sequel in
that regard, just with a far less depressing and
dark tone. I will say that one reason I’m able to
derive so much pleasure from the nonsensical is
that my natural state when taking in movies is to
go brain-off. I never find myself trying to solve
a mystery presented to me on screen, for instance.
So, provide some cool visuals, reasonable plot
points and some sweet payoffs and I’m all good.
This film delivers in that regard. However, I
can’t go brain off when I’m taking script notes,
which churned up quite a few issues for me -
specifically in regards to how they handled and
presented Laurie’s survivalism in the film.
Realistically, it starts out fairly tame,
with little to object to. She likes popping
off rounds in her backyard, making her own
preserves and maintaining a well-stocked
panic room. All pretty standard stuff.
It’s when they ramp things up and show how far
she’s actually taken it that things begin to
fall apart. If you’ve seen this film before,
and you weren’t unsettled by the fact that she
rested up against a door with two windows in it,
you have a steely constitution. Decisions aside,
why does her forest stronghold have a door
with windows to begin with? Furthermore,
why on Earth would you set up a system
that requires you to bodily move through
the home to check and clear all the rooms
in order to manually hit the door buttons,
which are right outside the rooms? These are, of
course, rhetorical questions. The answer to this
is that you would not, if you were worth
your salt in an emergency prep situation.
She has cameras, wired up a bitching light
system and had an automated kitchen island,
among other contraptions. These skills should be
put to good use by creating a system whereby the
operator would be able to utilize a central
system to power the doors and activate them
all at once or individually. I assume the
purpose here is to limit Michael’s movement,
prevent the possibility of escape and focus
the eventual fire into the core of the home.
I’m on board with that, but it was
implemented sloppily and dangerously.
With all of that time to prepare and build
a home around a trap with such a specific,
singular purpose, you should really be focusing on
developing a failsafe way of getting Michael into
the basement and lighting it up. Just think
for a moment - for the purpose of the plot,
all this stuff happened at the stairwell to
the basement. But it was a stairwell that
was intentionally hidden. And when the
time came, there were some uncomfortable
path crossings back and forth to get him in and
them out. So many things would have to go just
right to accomplish this and get out without
suffering losses. It seems like a far shot.
I suppose it is possible that he was intended to
be contained to the main portion of the house,
with the basement as a backup. However, the way
they bladed him in like that really made it seem
like that was the end goal. This is supported
by the incendiary devices contained therein,
which were controlled from outside of that room.
Again, the argument could be made that these are
backup systems with built in redundancies to
ensure success. I would still contend that, if
this is the case, it would be preferable to come
up with a better way to achieve the ultimate goal.
If you really want to go deep into the
level of chess being played here by Laurie,
you could also say that the door situation
was somewhat intentional in that she wanted to
maintain a strong prison barrier, but with some
manner of ingress available to ensure Michael
can enter the trap (but with the unintended
side effect of getting her face smashed up).
Even if that were the case, it still calls the
method into question, because once he comes in
they still have to get him into the basement
that they occupy. While I acknowledge that
it’s an important part of the story arc to have
Allyson get blood on her hands to ensure none of
the three generations are innocent for whatever is
going to come in the sequel, all of that trauma,
suffering and uncertainty could have been
avoided with the most basic ambush device,
the trapdoor. Michael enters, he falls and then
he gets burned up. Clean, easy and it gets the
job done. If not that, at least try to create
situations where the drama can spring forth
naturally as a result of good and reasonable
decisions being made. Although, with the house
turned to ash, this shouldn’t pose any issues in
the sequel. So that’s a promising starting point.
Before we go, I’d like to give a huge thanks to
my donors, memorialized in the hall of headshots.
I have a website set up where you
can support the channel through
donations or merch. Any donation unlocks
uncensored movie reviews of Lifeforce,
Under the Skin and Possessor, with others to
be added over time. If you enjoyed the video,
I’d love for you to become a part of the
channel by subscribing. Thanks for watching.